# Detection-of-texts-generated-by-bots

This project presents solution for detection texts on Russian, generated by bots.


# Dataset

The dataset is corpus of Russian tweets, marked up
binary as 1 for bot-generated text and as 0 for human-generated.
Dataset was collected, using both translated binary labelled English dataset of tweets and Russian dataset of human-generated
tweets (as corpus real Russian "social networks language").

# Methods

Actually task of detection of bot-generated text we can consider as task of binary
classification. Also I have selected text-based approach for that task, because
now we have good enough and open-source transfromers (BERT-type), which
are able to give high score for text classification task.

Currently SOTA in text classification tasks are encoder-only transformers.
Therefore for my project I have used this type models.

The baseline is required because there is no previous art on the problem
of bot-detection in texts on Russian in social networks. For baseline I have
selected TF-IDF logistic regression, because it is simple method. I have used
Tf-idf vectorizer and logistic regression algorithm from sklearn library.

After that I have finetuned two pre-trained on Russian texts BERT-type
transformers: rubert-tiny2 and ruBert-base.
Rubert-tiny2 is comparatively small (not above 250 Mb), therefore fast for
finetuning.
I have finetuned rubert-tiny2 on both types of training set: "initial" and
augmented (see details of augmentation approach in "Dataset" section).
RuBert-base is bigger than rubert-tiny2 (above 700 Mb), therefore not so
fast for finetuning, but usually give good score of metrics for classification
tasks.

# Report
This project proposes a solution for task of detection of bot-generated texts
in social networks on Russian. The task was managed by text-based methods: TF-IDF logistic regression and two types of transformers (both are encoder-only). Comparative analysis was done: the best result
is finetuned transformer ruBert-base.
So, this project result is first open-source model for detection of bot-generated
texts in social networks on Russian, finetuned on Russian tweets dataset.

For additional details please refer to report in pdf-file and project code in notebook in this repository.
